and how you can be associated
with them. OK.
Ready? Yeah, I'm ready. I don't have to do that.
Excuse me. Well, my name is Paul W. Womack. And I was
born in Texarkana up in Bowie County in Northeast
Texas, December 12, 1921, and lived there until I
went into the Army during World War II. in 1942. I
graduated from Texas Senior High School in
Texarkana from Texarkana College, which was a
junior college. And for two years immediately
preceding my entry into the United States Army in
World War II, I worked at the Federal Correctional
Institution in Texarkana, where I was secretary
to the Classification Committee responsible for
history on
responsible for recording the minutes of a
committee that interviewed inmates coming in and
got their life history and their health situation
and the needs economic needs of their family at
home so the so the prison could properly assign
them to work duties and give them the opportunity
for educational and health facilities there at
the prison. I went into the Army in August of 1942,
was overseas in October 1942, and spent three
years in North Africa, Italy, and France, and
returned. I was with the Services Supply Army of
the United States. Primarily, I was a part of the
various port headquarters at Casablanca. Oh.
O-Ran, Naples, and Marseilles. And we were in what
was called the Transportation Corps. Yeah.
Responsible for operating the port and, of
course, receiving incoming cargo and personnel
and seeing that it probably stored and then sent on
to the front. Were you an officer in this or an
enlisted? I went into the Army as a private in, uh,
and while I was at Camp Robinson, which was a
reception center at Little Rock, Arkansas, I was
promoted to corporal first week because because
the brass found out that I knew how to type and take
shorthand, which I learned in high school. And
they were extremely short of GIs with those
capabilities, and they were preparing the forces
at that time for the invasion of Europe, even at
that point. So I was promoted to corporal and then
sent to... Indian Town Gap, Pennsylvania, and
from there to Staten Island, New York, and
overseas to Casablanca within about two months
after I joined the Army. So you didn't go through a
regular basic training? No. I was promoted to, I
got various promotions and was promoted to
warrant officer junior grade while still in North
Africa, and then while I was in Italy, I received a
field commission as second lieutenant after
being thoroughly trained questioned by a board of
about 16 chicken colonels. And I had that rank when
I was discharged in 1945.
So as soon as I came back from the Army, I enrolled at
Rice University to complete my undergraduate
degree. And after graduating from Rice with a
liberal arts, bachelor of arts degree, I enrolled
at South Texas College of Law, which is a night law
school in Houston. and graduated from there in
1950 with a Dr. George Prudence degree. How I first
came to know George Mitchell, some of this is going
to be excess verbiage about me, and I don't want to
take anything from the Woodlands, and you can cut
all this out, but I do whatever you want. I'd rather
have more than that. Yeah, I want you to understand
how. When I came to Houston in early 46 to enroll at
Rice, I was planning to be married, and I needed a
part-time job, because GI benefits were rather
limited at that time. I did go to school on GI, Bill,
though, both at Rice University and South Texas
College of Law. This was in 46, you said? Yeah.
Early 46? Early 46. You must have been one of the
first ones separated out of it. Yeah, well, see,
the war ended in 45, and I arrived back home in, oh, I
guess, November, October or November, went back
to work for a brief period at the federal prison in
Texas County. Yeah, you would have had a lot of
points then. Oh, yeah, I did. Oh, yeah, having been
overseas for three years, I was one of the first to
come back after the war in the Pacific ended. And I
needed to work, so I had a... A friend I grew up with
in Texas County who had married a young man who was
down here in Houston and whom I did not know, but who
was a student at South Texas College of Law and
worked as a secretary in a small law firm in
downtown Houston. He didn't want to work but a half
a day because he wanted his afternoons free to
study for the night classes. So through this
acquaintance in Texas County to whom he had been
married, went down and got on as a part-time
secretary to the law firm in downtown Houston and
worked there in the afternoons and later on
full-time all the way through Rice University and
South Texas College of Law. In that law firm was
Paul Smith, an attorney, now retired, who had
known George and Johnny Mitchell. They grew up
together in Galveston. They were all BOIs. I know
you're familiar with that phrase. So at that time,
George and Johnny and Merlin and a fellow by the
name of Roxy Wright were just beginning, that's
early 46, were just beginning to get into the oil
business with offices over in the Esperson
building in downtown Houston. So I was secretary
to Paul Smith and the other lawyers in the firm.
They were free, I guess, at that time. And Paul was
doing George and Johnny's oil and gas work at the
very beginning when they got into the oil
business. So that's when I met George Mitchell and
Johnny in early 1946. But when I graduated from law
school, I had made commitments to go with the same
young man who had graduated from law school and
entered the title business in Houston, so I went
into practice with him. I didn't become
associated again with Paul Smith of the firm of
Smith and Fulton, who were attorneys all through
the formative stages of the Mitchell Company and
on until Paul retired and Tom Fulton passed away
about two or three years ago.
Let me see, I've lost my train of thought.
I became associated with Paul Smith and Tom Fulton
in early 1964, at the very time that George was in
the process of completing the acquisition of the
Old Grove and Copper and Lumber Company, which
owned several thousand acres of land in
Montgomery and the joining counties. Most of my
work during that period when I was not associated
with Paul or the Mitchell Companies in any way was
in the real estate field as attorney for a title
company and doing real estate conveyancing and
primarily that's what I was doing in private
practice. Was that more or less your specialty?
Yes, that was my specialty, real estate. So it just
fell into place there for about three or four years
as they began to get into the real estate business.
They had been, of course, only in the oil and gas and
related businesses up to that time in 64. And it
just fell in line that I was doing some of the
Mitchell work while I was associated with Smith
and Fulton, not as a partner, but just an
associate. And so the company offered me the
position of vice president and counsel on
effective January 1, 1968. And that's when I
became an employee of the Mitchell Company's And
at that time began the creation of the legal
department. Mitchell never had an internal legal
department. As such, they had this small firm of
Smith and Fulton, which served as a sort of
in-house law department. But they were not
integrated as a part of the company. And that was
the beginning, and I worked with, Mr. Charles
Lively, who was employed by the company and who was
the outside contact between the company and
various property owners in the Woodlands area.
And at that time, I was the legal department for a
couple years or so at Mitchell. I had one
secretary. And Mr. Mitchell, of course, would
make the decisions as to what properties he wanted
to acquire in connection with blocking up this
land out here for the Woodlands development, and
Charles would make the contact with the owners and
bring back the information, and I would write the
contracts. We probably,
I guess we must have had 300 or more separate
transactions all the way down from a half acre up to
several thousand acres of land involved in the
various transactions that were entered into in
order to block up the land, the woodlands. Were
there any special legal challenges associated
with that? Well, there were a number of special
challenges, and later on, David Bumgardner,
who's now Associate General Counsel and heads the
Real Estate Department, or Division of the Legal
Department, Dave came to work for me in the legal
department, and he became involved with me in a
number of challenging transactions, one of which
was an exchange of land with Champion. Lumber
company? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Champion. And
they had a they had a subsidiary called Champion
Realty, I believe, and very complicated process
of working out an exchange of some land that they
had for some land we wanted in the closer proximity
to the core of the woodlands. And that turned out to
be quite a challenging situation. And then Mr.
Mitchell decided
that he would like to get into the land title
insurance business. So it was Dave and my
responsibility to get all the title work done for
the several thousand acres that then comprised
the woodlands. and get it ready not only for the
entrance into the title business, which we did
before we had sold the bonds to start the
Woodlands, but also to have a title insurance
agency that we were part owners of that would be
writing the title insurance here in the
Woodlands. Do you know what prompted Mr.
Mitchell's decision to get into the title
business? Well, Leonard Ivins at that time, who
came down from Baltimore, Maryland, uh was head of
the woodlands and he i think lynn more than george
wanted to capture as much of the business that was
created by the woodlands development that he
could and including that he knew was quite a bit of
title business and he thought was uh probably very
lucrative so i think it was lynn ivan's more so than
george himself but george readily agreed to it and
One thing that happened, we started out with one
company and
were pressed for time. This was in early 72. And, of
course, George had another friend on at
Galveston,
Carlos Morris, who was president, chairman of
Stewart Title Guarantee Company, which is the
granddaddy of Title Insurance in the state of
Texas. So almost at the 11th hour, Carlos Marsh
talked George into going to the Stewart Title
Guarantee Company in the development of the title
business in the Woodlands. So we had to switch
gears. And of course, we had worked with Stewart in
other areas, like especially down at Galveston in
the Pirates Cove and Pirates Beach subdivisions
down there. And we knew all those people. But we
switched gears and got the company started, which
is now stir a title of Montgomery County, Inc. here
in the Woodlands. And that proved to be quite a
challenge. And getting the titles of all of the
land involved in the Woodlands ready to be in an
insurable status so that the bonds could be
issued. And what we had to do was, pardon me, just
for me, sir. What did I say, Donovan? You were in the
process of getting all the titles together for the
bonding? Oh, yeah, because the bonds were
guaranteed by the United States government. And
to secure that guarantee, we had to give the
government a deed of trust on all of the land out
here. And necessarily all of the parcels had to be
examined and surveys made and exceptions noted,
reservations, and all of that. in order for
stirred title guarantee company to issue the $50
million policy guaranteeing, ensuring that the
titles were good and that the that the lean was
good. So we had to do this under a pressure
situation. In fact, Dave and I worked in New York
for two days with a total of about six hours sleep,
three hours each night getting that ready. And we
in order to to have it ready before the bonds were
sold in late summer, early fall of 1972. That
proved to be quite a challenging operation, too.
Can you imagine how many pieces of land were
involved in the 25,000 acres out here at the
Woodlands and all the mineral exceptions,
easements, and everything else? And there were a
number of titles which had to be cleared up. Most of
which, though, were just a simple matter, not too
many complicated title requirements that had to
be curated. To make a long story short, we did get
the information ready so that the policy could be
issued in time for the sale of the $50 million in
bonds. And that was a negotiated sale, and time was
a big factor there, too. Because I think, if I'm not
wrong, this was the last negotiated bond sale that
they had from then on they decided to go out to bid
process and we got a as a result of that we got a very
favorable 7.1 interest rate and then uh later on uh
mr mitchell wanted to sell uh some of the timber on
the various tracks of land some of the pine timber
in georgia pacific was then active in this area.
Later on, Louisiana's Pacific was spun off of
Georgia Pacific because of antitrust problems
with the government. But we had to prepare the
initial contract under which 100 million board
feet of pine timber was sold. And I'd never drawn a
timber contract in my life up to that point. And
that was a very challenging situation by virtue of
the fact that I had studied typing and shorthand in
high school and worked with it all through the
Army, my Army experience. And while I was working
in prison in Tuxcana, I became a pretty good
typist. And I would work on the contract at night at
home and bring it back, and we'd review it during
the day with all the representatives of Georgia
Pacific and and our people that furnished, of
course, the technical information necessary to
prepare the agreement. And we got that worked out,
which is, you know, even to this day is used as the
landmark contract for dealings with Louisiana
Pacific. And then another challenging
opportunity for me came when the attorney that
Lynn Ivins had employed up in Baltimore that he had
known at the Roush development up there to to work
out the terms of a contract with Gulf States
Utility Company to provide electric power to the
woodlands and also to to pay a sort of not really a
license fee because we were not a city and not in a
position to give a license was very comparable to a
fee that they would pay the city of Houston, for
instance, like Houston Lighting Power, for a
license to operate. Now, who are they? This was in
Gulf State, isn't it? Gulf State Utility Company,
yes. And they still, of course, they're the only
utility company serving the woodlands. And along
the way, Lynn became disenchanted with this
lawyer up there, and he was charging what he
considered an excessive fee, so he asked me to pick
up the ball and continue with that, which we did. We
finally reached an agreement with Gulf States
Utilities Company, and it's, of course, still the
contract under which Gulf States provides
electric power and pays a royalty or fee to the
woodlands, which is used to help pay community,
cost of community amenities. Could you also get
involved in... the other utilities? No. Dave
worked out, Dave Baumgartner worked out, did most
of the work on the agreement with, I believe, to set
up a gas company here in the Woodlands, which was
later sold to Intex early on. We had to do it
initially because we had to have gas to provide the
customers, you know, the residents out here, and
we set up our own gas company, which was later. I did
some work on that, but It was later sold to Intex,
and I think John Watson, who's in governmental
affairs, he's probably one of the people on your
list. He worked on the negotiations with Intex,
and Dave and I did the legal work to sell that gas
company to Intex.
Why did they sell it? That seems, well, it's a
different, It's a related kind of industry. Well,
it's related, but that was the only entry into the
retail utility business that the company had
until they got into the cable television business
later on. And for some reason or other, Mr.
Mitchell just didn't want to continue that
particular business and made the deal with Intex.
Of course, they're now the provider of natural
gas. here in the woodlands what about the water
water of course is provided by a series of
municipal utility districts created and there
again dave bungardner did most of the legal work on
assisting with creation and a lawyer here who's on
the outside of the county mike page represented
the the district's uh as they were created and the
necessary legal work with the state to get them
created and get the bond issue authorized and
sold. Each MUD has its own bond? Yes, each MUD has
its own bond. Each MUD has its own officers and
trustees, and they serve a certain designated
area just like a school district would. and they
they use common facilities a lot out here common
sewer treatment plants through contract and that
type of thing but they're all individually
created districts with taxing authority and and
the responsibility of providing water sewer and
drainage to the area within their respective
boundaries
and the telephone situation proved to be a kind of a
sticky situation we had again i think mr ivan's was
probably more the moving factor in the creation of
the telephone business than was george but of
course george went along with it and we we formed a
company in partnership with a with a company up in
kylene i think it's called central telephone or
something like that and uh we were going to own and
and the telephone local telephone company here in
the woodlands well we got We got into a situation
where Southwestern Bell refused to give the
company tie-ins for long-distance service. When
was this? Oh, the very early days of development.
In the early 70s? Yeah, yeah. And what we would have
had, had we continued that, would have been just a
giant intercommunication system here in the
woodlands with no interconnects with
long-distance. So the company hired some lawyers
in Houston. Louis Payne primarily did the trial
work and sued the Southwestern Belt Telephone
Company under the antitrust laws for refusing to
give interconnects and making it impossible,
really, for the company which we had formed to
install and operate a telephone system here in the
woods. It was a 50-50 deal. We brought to the table,
of course, the Woodlands and the business, and the
other company brought to the table the expertise
and know-how in operation of a telephone company.
But we tried that case in the federal court in
Houston, and we got a judgment from the jury for
everything we asked for. This was, again, about
the 70s? Yeah, it was in the early 70s. It must have
been, well, I'm sure it was after we had opened in
74, probably middle or later latter 70s that this
occurred. And we filed suit. And like I said, we got
a judgment. The jury rounded it off and lopped off
$0.60 of the amount we we sued for. But other than
that, they gave us everything we sued for. And
under federal law, antitrust judgments are
tripled. Whatever you get from the jury is
tripled. So the judgment was $54 million in excess
of $54 million. Well, naturally, the telephone,
Southwestern Bell, appealed it. And the case was
overturned by the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans in a
ridiculous opinion. But nevertheless, they did
overturn it. And after that, we settled with
Southwestern Bell. They came into the woodlands,
and that's why we have Southwestern Bell's AT&T
system now instead of our own woodlands
telecommunications system. Part of the
settlement was cash, and part of the settlement
was they purchased some land here in the
woodlands. And we got a fairly nice settlement,
but nothing like the the judgment of $54 million.
So this other communications telephone company
by the wayside. Doesn't exist. Doesn't exist.
Although that used to be a norm in Texas. Yes.
People did that. In fact, there's two of them in
Lubbock or something like that. Well, I think
there's one over here at Kingwood, too. And for
some reason or other, they were able to get the
necessary interconnects, but we couldn't. They
just flat wouldn't work with us at all. I guess they
saw the potential for business here in the
Woodlands and wanted it, of course, for
themselves. That's interesting. Tell me, you
mentioned earlier about a cable company that Mr.
Mitchell put together. I'd never heard about
that. Well, we started the Woodlands Cablevision
Company and operated it for a number of years. And I
believe the company, the sale of 50% of it occurred
after I retired, but I think it's still, in fact,
I'm sure the company still owns 50%, but it's
managed by the company that bought the other 50%
interest in it. But for many years, we operated,
owned and operated 100% of all the cable
television services here in the Woodlands. Was
this, I mean, obviously the intent was to make
money, but also was it a quality of life issue?
Well, yes, yes. I noticed Mr. Mitchell seemed
very, very savvy about... Yeah, he wanted not only
the services that cable companies can provide,
but also the availability of local channels for
local programming and things that would benefit
the people living in the woodlands. educational
services and things of that nature because he's
been an ardent supporter of kuh tv oh yes channel
nine uh channel uh eight eight yeah yeah public
television yeah okay yeah but that's a regular
that's a regular commercial public not
commercial but it's a regular public television
station this is just the cable that serves the
woodlands yeah right now called woodlands cable
vision i forgot what we called it when when did that
company Well, I would say that company was formed
very early, Don. But of course, I could research
these things and get the dates and everything.
Mike Richmond, over in the Executive Vice
President of Woodlands Corporation, could fill
you in on more detail. Mike was more directly
involved in that. We've talked with him, but none
of this came out. It didn't? Well, we didn't know
what to ask. Yeah.
Well, he was more interested in the woodlands, per
se. Yeah. But one of the things that has intrigued
me is the... One of the things I find fascinating
about the woodlands is the completeness of the
vision, the... maybe those are poor terms, but the
comprehensiveness, maybe, of the vision that Mr.
Mitchell had, which seemed to cover every aspect
of... That came, of course, from George Mitchell.
Mike was one of the people we got from the Roush
folks out at Baltimore. And another man that we had
here who passed away about two years ago, Byrne
Robbins, was responsible for a lot of the early
development of the woodlands. and we had some
other other fellows here but mike i believe is
about the only one that remains from that group as
an executive ordinance corporation you returned
in 86 february of uh 87 february 1st 87. four years
will be four years has come in february since uh
that book was published six seven years ago what
what changes have you seen in the woodlands and the
directions it's going?
Well, of course, there's been considerable
increase in commercial activity in the
woodlands, the development of the research
forest. I was involved in the initial legal work
done when HARC was created. In fact, I drew the
original proposal between the company and Skip
Porter, who's now president of Hark. Because
George, when he wanted to keep things pretty much
close to the chest, he would just call me into his
office, and I'd bring my shorthand pad, and he
would, if I hadn't been able to take shorthand, I
wouldn't have been able to keep up with him. and
he'd dictate the terms of the agreement, you know,
and then I'd take it back and prepare the
agreements, and I worked with him and with Skip
Porter on that when Skip was at A&M, where he came
from here. I haven't had much to do with Hark since
then, but was very much involved in the early
creation of it.
and the increase, of course, in the educational
facilities here in the Woodlands, and building of
new schools, and also in the church activity. I'm a
member of the First Baptist Church here in the
Woodlands, which was the first church created in
the Woodlands, and since then there have been
numerous churches, and some of them are getting
quite large. The idea we had, or the idea Mr.
Mitchell had initially, just didn't fly, but it
was a very good idea, and his idea was that Instead
of every denomination or congregation building a
separate building, which they would use probably
just a fraction of the time each week and on
weekends, his idea was to have a common facility
that would be used by numerous different
denominations and therefore really save a lot of
money in building independent churches. The idea
just never seemed to catch on. So we have churches
of just about every denomination, I believe, here
in the Woodlands now. And of course, that's been
progressing ever since the Woodlands was formed,
not necessarily in the last three or four years. I
still do some work for Mr. Mitchell. And of course,
I still keep up with what's going on here, even
though I don't do legal work for the company. But I
think that in the near future, We're going to see
continued development in the research forest
area, and that's where I think the Woodlands
probably will make the greatest input in the
business and industrial and governmental and
educational combination. Well, the regional
mall. Yes, and the regional mall will come. And the
mall, not the mall, but the other shopping center
above the mall, between the mall and the hospital,
I think the Target store is scheduled to open in the
fall of this year, so that will be good for that area
up there. And numerous new parks are being
created, which is good. I think we'll have
excellent golf courses and public parks. It's
still a unique development insofar as everything
that it offers its residents. not the least of
which is security, and which is very important
nowadays. Did you get involved, I can't remember
who it was now, someone mentioned that a few years
ago, or actually when Mr. Mitchell was trying to
get this started, there was some resistance from
the part of the,
well, the county commissioners. Montgomery
County was, you know, kind of... Well, yes, I was
aware of that. And also, of course, I was involved
in working with the outside law firm that we
employed to work with the city of Houston in
extending its territorial jurisdiction to
include the woodlands. And I think probably in the
background, the
problems with the Montgomery County officials
might have been responsible for that as much as
anything. plus the fact that we did not want the
city of Houston out here. We didn't want these
small municipalities growing up out here like you
see out in Memorial Drive, for instance. And in
order to do that, we asked the city of Houston to
extend its extraterritorial jurisdiction under
Texas law, which Houston did, of course. And then
along the way, we had to file a suit against
Shenandoah because they ran a strip down the
freeway, and they were trying to annex everything
down to and including the area where the mall was.
And we hired Will Sears' firm. Will just passed
away the other day. Will Sears' firm, Sears and
Burns in Houston, and filed suit and finally
worked that out with Shenandoah. Involved in it
was the location of the Woodlands Hospital and
some other things. we got their their boundaries
pushed north of the of the of the mall area where the
new target pinecraft center would be what was the
what was the motivation for that were they just
trying to grab i think they were just trying to
expand the city and and expand their tax base and
they could foresee the development and the
increase in value along the freeway there in
particular but but their annexation strip
description was erroneous for one thing. That was
the basis on which the suit was filed. We have very
good relations with the city of Shenandoah now, as
far as I know. Excellent relations with them. One
of the most unusual acquisitions, I guess, going
back to the time when we were blocking up land, was
the acquisition of this frontage on the freeway.
It belonged to two different groups. One had an
undivided half interest and another family group
had the other one. We acquired the first undivided
half interest with very little trouble, but the
second remaining undivided half interest
belonged to a Waco banker we called Robert Mann, by
the name of Robert Mann. He had banking interests
in Waco and several other Texas cities. And we
negotiated with him Labor Day, I believe it was, in
72, because we naturally wanted that land. We
wanted his undivided half-interest. And we
negotiated with him one Labor Day while he was
trying to push us and pressure us because he had to
catch a plane for Washington. And I had to call
George back to the woodlands from Galveston where
he was on his weekend vacation down there. And so
before the day's end, though, we worked out a deal
whereby we acquired It amounted to net 2,000
acres. That's what it amounted to. It divided half
inches in 4,000 acres of land along the freeway.
And initially, another interesting thing to me is
that initially we thought that Woodlands
Parkway, what's now Woodlands Parkway, would
have some commercial development along the
sides, like the traditional strip centers down
along 1960 and other places. And initially we had
planned to do that. And but that idea was abandoned
in favor of concentrating the commercial
development in the neighborhoods and then the
major commercial development along the freeway.
But that was our initial plan. There's been some
discussion, argument even, maybe. Well, maybe
that's too strong a term. But at least discussion
about the wisdom of doing that. Because from the
freeway, all you see is a wall of trees. And it's
sort of like, what's the woodlands? I mean, it's
almost a secret blend you know and uh there was some
some comment made by by some of the individuals
we've talked to that um maybe the woodlands would
have been a lot better off if they would have
knocked down a few of those trees and as you could
see into one of those lakes at least yeah you know as
sort of a come on or an intriguing kind of uh well mr
mitchell from the very outset has been very
protective i know that's why there's a lot of
knowledge Not only the trees, but the vegetation,
you know. In fact, it took years before Roger
Gladys was successful in clearing the
intersections because the growth of the
undergrowth and the trees and everything at
intersections had begun to be a traffic hazard.
Yeah, you couldn't see. We had several. And I don't
know whether Mr. Mitchell ever totally agreed
with him or not, but I do know that I was noticing
this morning, as a matter of fact, as I came down off
of Grogan's Mill Road onto Timberlock Place how
much different it looks now from what it used to.
And I think it's an improvement, not only
aesthetically, but from a traffic safety
standpoint. But I doubt if George ever wholly
bought that idea because he loves those trees and
those wildflowers and that underground. You live
here in the woods? Yes. I live over here on Log Run
Circle, just back of the country club. My wife and I
moved out here in December of 79, just about a year
before the company headquarters moved out here.
So you, now this isn't, because not everyone in the
Woodlands Company even lives in the woodlands.
No, that's true. And, but you bought? I bought a
house out here in early 79, knowing that the
company was, you know, in the process of moving out
here, and rented it for a while, and then moved into
it in December of 79. I had trouble getting my wife
out here because we'd been living for twenty years
in Southwest Houston where all her friends, all
the professional people that she used, and the
church was four or five blocks away. It took me two
years to find a house. But she's one of the greatest
proponents of the Woodlands now, and she just
loves the place. That's been a consistent
problem. The Woodlands has a very keen, natural
kind of environment. But I noticed that there's
been several people who expressed concern that,
you know, my gosh, what would my wife do here? I
seemed isolated from whatever. This was a real
problem. You know, I considered every possible
alternative, commuting every day, which would
have been an 80-mile round-trip commute from
where we lived out near the Astrodome. And... Even
renting an apartment and living out here the week
and going back home on the weekends, but nothing
seemed to really be the way to go. But finally, I
found the house that she and I both fell in love
with, and she has never been sorry that we moved out
here. Wonderful place to live.
The pavilion actually happened after you
retired, didn't it?
Well, let me ask you, this is sort of a standard
question we've asked everyone. Let's see if that
other one comes back to my head. It is obvious that
the Woodlands Corporation has a culture that is
unique, and the majority of that uniqueness comes
from the personality of George Mitchell.
Or a lot of it.
At some point, Mr. Mitchell's presence in the
Woodlands Corporation won't be either as strong
or won't be there at all. He'll pass on, just as we
all will. What do you foresee happening when that
eventuality becomes a reality?
That's a very difficult question. First, I don't
like to think about it even, about him not being
here, because having known George since 1946 and
having worked with him about half of that time. I
just can't foresee his vision and his ideas
continuing, although we've got some very good
people in the Woodlands Corporation. And I think,
though, that with the impetus that's developed
already, and which will continue, of course, as
long as he's here, I think it will continue to be the
development that it was originally planned to be,
which was about a city of about 150,000 people.
with diversity of residential construction so
that we could avoid in the woodlands what's
happened in every major city in the country, the
inner city slums and that type of thing. And that
idea has caught on out here, and it's worked very
satisfactorily. And I think certainly that it
would be sad indeed if whoever takes over the
Woodlands Corporation didn't continue that
throughout the total acreage yet available for
development. And the recreational facilities
available to the residents and to the public in
general out here are the finest in the land. I don't
know of anything it even compares that I've been to
unless it's Hilton Head, and I think we're rapidly
passing Hilton Head because I haven't been to some
of the ones in Florida and California, but I think
this concept has proven to be so successful that I
think it will continue. I think it will continue. I
think the real blossoming of the woodlands, and
again, I'm getting a lot of these ideas from George
Mitchell, from listening to him talk, but it
really hasn't blossomed yet, probably another
five, six, seven or eight years before it does with
the continued development of the research
forest. area over there, which just is that the
possibilities that that will bring to the
woodlands is just unlimited. Now, it seems to be a
major impetus anyway. Yes, right. That's part of
the— Definitely. Of the, you know, we want people
to work here and live here and play here, and the
types of industries that they're promoting over
there, you know, it's very encouraging. In fact,
you know, it's to the point almost now where
there's really no reason. My wife and I don't see
any reason to go anywhere on vacation. Where would
we go? What would we do that we can't do right here in
the woodlands? And I really like that. I really
like that and love. And, of course, we're up over
30,000 people now in spite of the recessions we've
been through out here, which I think speaks well
for the idea and the way it's being pursued. Do you
think that, in fact, is the foundational... of the
community, perhaps, is the fact that the
residents themselves are so loyal to the concepts
that Mr. Mitchell provided that, in fact, there's
this sort of residual
allegiance to those concepts, so that were he
there or were he not there, those concepts would
continue. I believe they will. I believe they
will. I believe most of the residents are. You hear
a little grumbling now and then about this or that,
but that's to be expected. But I think there's a
tremendous loyalty and resonance to the
woodlands and the concept and the desire to see
that it remains the way it was envisioned, you
know, and the way it's been developed under his
leadership. I guess that is. Is there anything I
should have asked that I haven't? Well, I may think
of something after you leave, Don, but I think
we've certainly, from the standpoint of the
things that I've been involved in here... I think
we've pretty well covered the waterfront, but if
you'll leave me a card or something where I can get
back with you if I think of something. We're going
to get back in touch with you anyway, because I want
you to read the transcript. Okay, all right. Let me
give it some thought, if I think of anything that we
may not have covered.